---
title: "Week 1: Final Project Proposal"
date: 2021-02-01T17:11:55-05:00
draft: false
---

For my final project, I have a couple of ideas revolving around robotics and control systems. I've always been fascinated with the ability of humans, through technology, to control things outside of our own body. Below are several ideas which I would like to explore.

**EEG-controlled robot.** I have this toy bluetooth-enabled EEG from a Star Wars Force Trainer kit which I had purchased a while back specifically for the purpose of doing some cool things with in terms of brain-machine interfaces. Alas, I never mustered up the courage to crack that bad boy open and start soldering things onto the circuit board. The closest I got was reading the signals from the headset via apps on my phone. In the course of my experimentation, I found that the claimed EEG functionality is indeed real, but the headset could detect blinks with far greater accuracy than it could detect brainwaves. This is probably because the single "read" electrode is conveniently located on the left eyebrow, where the eyelid muscles are. In fact, the headset is capable of differentiating between "soft" blinks and "hard" blinks, assigning different relative strength values to each. Because of this, I think it may be theoretically feasible to provide input to a robot with *n* degrees of freedom given *n* possible distinct signals using blinks. These can be blink sequences, e.g. a double-blink, a soft-blink followed by a strong-blink, etc. Though this doesn't technically count as "brain-controlled", I think the increased fidelity of blink detection over brainwave detection makes this a much more practical application of the EEG. The major challenges here would be 1) extracting the signal from the EEG and 2) wirelessly receiving and interpreting the signal.

**EMG-controlled prosthesis.** Kind of similar idea as above, but with an electromyography interface instead of EEG. I don't have an EMG but there are kits online. This is also a rather difficult signal processing problem, however...

**Fail-proof wake-up alarm.** Okay this is a radically different idea from the previous ones, but hear me out. So I'm one of those people who tend to have trouble waking up early in the morning. Worse, my sleep-deprived lizard brain can fully neutralize any alarm before my prefrontal cortex knows what's up. I've tried nearly everything, from lamps that blast light in my face at 7 AM to those gimmicky alarm apps that make you solve a math problem to wake up. It got to the point where I was solving 5-digit by 5-digit multiplication problems and turning off the alarm while practically still unconscious. So, I need to make an alarm that 1) never lets down its guard, and 2) is annoying enough to actually get me out of bed. Therefore, my big idea is to construct a pressure-sensing pad on the bed which sends a wireless signal to a speaker. When the bed pad is triggered, the speaker will play heavy metal music or, even better, loudly read the 37 items on my to-do list. This system will remain active between the hours of 7 AM and 9 PM, so I cannot stay in bed beyond 7. My intention is to lock the speaker plus power supply in a box (possibly handmade, I do enjoy woodworking) and store it somewhere inaccessible in my room. I believe this system truly represents the holy grail of alarms, and may usher in a new era of unprecedented morning productivity.


